Adam Joseph Smith, born 13 Dec 1971, Hornell NY, was the youngest child of Jeffrey Smith Jr. and Bernice Lee Casinelli. 

Adam was raised in the Smith family home, West Main Street, Woodhull NY and attended schools in Addison NY. Like every member of the Smith family, Adam helped with the family business, H. P. Smith & Son, in various ways from a young age. As an older child, he followed in his older siblings' footsteps, working at the Woodhull Cemetery in the Summers, under the direction of the caretaker, their grandfather Emilio Casinelli, better known to his many friends as "Casey".

Adam attended the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences at Cornell University, where graphic design was one area of concentration. After graduating in 1994, he lived two years in Cheektowaga NY, and it was during this time that he saw new opportunities to apply his design and writing skills to the emerging World Wide Web, and subsequently returned to the family home in Woodhull for two years, during which time he obtained his Master's degree from Syracuse University part-time, and simultaneously managed a printing shop in Corning NY full-time. His studies at Syracuse focused on emerging information technology, and Adam began to rigorously teach himself computer programming, a prior hobby. 

Adam then returned to the Ithaca area and worked 24 years for Cornell Universty in several departments including central information technologies and the library system, first at Albert R. Mann Library and then in the central library information technology department located in John M. Olin Library. His primarily roles were software developer, project manager, and supervisor.  

In addition to his normal employment, Adam did freelance work, both graphic design and computer programming, over many years in his spare time. He also started several businesses, the most significant of which was the tourism marketing firm, The Finger Lakes Beer Trail.

Adam had no children. He was a life-long learner and enjoyed being physically active. He lived many years in quiet solitude at The Mills Place, Brookon NY, where his ashes will be scattered on the hill above. 

13 Dec 2022


---

I didn't set out to create what this investigation has become, and I grossly underestimated the time and effort needed to attempt achieving my goals. I only added structure and "best practices" as they truly became needed, and even then, only when I felt confident in a solution. Organizing content initially by date, and eventually subject, and writing citations, quotes, and thinly connecting them with my notes, and similar practices, evolved over time as my current "system" started to become counterproductive to my research. Eventually, I wrote software to partially automate a digitization workflow that allowed me to efficiently move from research to collection and classification, and eventually, publication. I was constantly trying to push forward, anything that began to slow my progress was optimized.

I put the information online initially just to facilitate communication with other historians, Mills descendants, etc. It seemed appropriate at the time to give Emily's store a website and host the information there.

As a result, the images are an incongruent mix of organizational approaches, as one example. I accepted that I would learn and evolve my approach over time, and in many cases, I didn't go back to retoactively impose new standards, as I wanted to keep moving forward.

I also had to accept that there would be a mix of citation styles, as some sources explictly provided their preferred citation format. So, for the citations I had control over, I eventually came up with my own standard approach that served my needs most efficiently.

For a long time, I defined my work as simply collecting and cataloging the evidence I found, and I resisted drawing conclusions, making inferences, proposing theories. But eventually this too would come to limit my progress, so I gradually relented. I hope that I have made these clear in the text.

After a while, I became aware that assuming my work was preserved, it could become a long letter to a person yet born. This person may read this and appreciate the time and effort it took from me, and my motivation for giving it. This person, perhaps a future 475er, might match my interest in these subjects and continue this effort, correcting my mistakes, furthering lines of research and solving new mysteries. 

I don't think I can adequately convey what Emily has come to mean to me or why. Perhaps someday someone else will understand it as I do.



-----
My property is at 475 Brooktondale Rd, Brooktondale, NY 14817, tax map ID: 11.-1-16. In the 1860's it was subdivided from the property next door to the east, and it is that boundary line that is in question. The property next door is currently Dalebrook Apartments, but was originally a grist mill, its address is 487 Brooktondale Road, Brooktondale, NY 14817, tax map ID: 11.-1-15, owned currently by Frank Proto. As you will see, Brooktondale Road used to be called Creek Road, Route 330, and Cooks Corners-Brookton Highway, or a variation of that.

Here is a summary of my deeds back to the beginning, I believe. Those deeds listed below starting with "*" contain survey maps.

  - Caroline Deeds: 1/572, 1869-05-22/1869-11-27, Jacob Vandemark, Charles W. Personeus & Marcie E. his wife to William B. Wolcott 
  - Caroline Deeds: 5/70, 1883-10-23/1883-11-10, William B. Wolcott and Ellen Wolcott, his wife to Horace N. Humiston senior
  - Caroline Deeds: 5/138, 1885-01-01/1885-04-11, Horace N. Humiston to Esther C. Vorhis
  - Deeds: 138/329, 1891-06-13/1891-06-30, Esther C. Vorhis and Frank C. Vorhis to Edward Lounsbery
  - Deeds: 157/593, 1903-01-05/1903-02-13, Edward Lounsbery and Amanda S. Lounsbery to Edward H. Mills
  - Deeds: 172/306, 1909-07-21/1909-07-30, Hannah Mills and M. Emily Mills to Fordyce A. Cobb
  - Deeds: 171/44, 1909-07-21/1909-07-30, Fordyce A. Cobb, a single man to Hannah Mills and M. Emilly Mills as joint tenants
  - Deeds: 248/238, 1938-07-31/1938-08-02, Charles E. Thomas as Administrator of Goods, Chattels and credits of Mary Emily Mills, deceased Lewis Brewer and Jessie Brewer, his wife

  * Deeds: 482/528, 1969-07-01/1969-07-19, Jessie Brewer to C. Dalton Jones and Clara B. Jones
  * Deeds: 577/1058, 1980-03-06/1980-06-27, C. Dalton Jones and Clara B. Jones to Lawrence E. Lattin and Janet L. Lattin 
  * Deeds, 683/73, 1992-08-27/1992-08-31, Lawrence E. Lattin and Janet L. Lattin to Andrea Talmadge
  * My current deed. 


27 Aug 1992, Boundary Line Agreement, Deeds 683, p70, Tompkins County Clerk, Ithaca NY.

This means that the following 

<figure>

> WHEREAS, the easterly line of said Lattin adjoins the westerly line of said Proto; and 

> WHEREAS, a corner of a shed and railroad tie retaining wall erected by Lattin projects over the common property line on to the Proto property according to a survey titled "Survey Map Showing House Location at 475 Brooktondale Rd., Town of Caroline, Tompkins Co., New York", which survey is attached hereto and which is being recorded herewith;

<figcaption>
<cite> 
– 27 Aug 1992, Boundary Line Agreement Between Lawrence and Janet Lattin and Frank Proto, Deeds 683, p70. “Survey Map Showing House Location at 475 Brooktondale Rd., Town of Caroline, Tompkins Co., New York”  Howard Schlieder, p71. Tompkins County Clerk, Ithaca NY. Cropped."
</cite>
</figcaption>
</figure>

January 2023: A question regarding the eastern boundary line with Dalebrook:

    A. Starting with an updated survey of my property prepared by Howard Schlieder for Deeds 577, p1058 from 1980, two eastern property lines are shown, and subsequently, Deeds 683, p70 from 1992 contains an updated survey still showing both lines along with an encroachment agreement between Frank Proto, owner of Dalebrook then and now, and previous owners of my property, Larry and Janet Lattin, acknowledging a shed existing at that time that is thought (incorrectly, as I will show) to now be over the property line. Both of these lines still appear on my current survey (from when I purchased the property), and the shed still exists in the same footprint presently. 

    B. However, the following three surveys taken together prove very clearly that the encroachment agreement incorrectly identified the true boundary line:

        1. Gordon Rice, 482/529 (# 18987), survey of my property,
        2. Howard Schlieder, 577/1060 survey of my property that shows the same boundary lines as Howard Schlieder 683/71 in the subsequent boundary line agreement, and
        3. Thomas Miller, 1970/11, survey of Dalebrook apartments, the adjoining property.

    C. The explanation for the two boundary lines is given in a note on the two Schlieder surveys mentioned above which reads:
    
        1. "This map is made to certify that the undersigned has examined a survey by Gordon E. Rice (18987) & found the easterly course different than that found on a survey of lands of Frank P. Proto, by Thomas Miller, in 1970. The latter survey was found to be correct." Note that "1970" is not referencing a year, but a book and page that directly cites the Thomas Miller survey of Dalebrook.

        3. The note quoted above unequivocally says that the Dalebrook survey--"the latter survey", "by Thomas Miller in 1970"--is correct, and further, a note on the easternmost boundary line on the updated Schlieder surveys further clarifies that it is the "property line as of survey in caroline 1970 pg 11", which is an unequivocal citation to the Miller survey that corroborates that this easternmost line is correct.
    
        4. Miller (1970/11) indicates the boundary line begins near Brooktondale Road with a "pipe set" and then intersects two symbols labelled "old pipe" in a straight line, and a "h'w'y mon" is several feet to the west of the "pipe set". Schlieder 577/1060 also indicates three "I.P. (found)", at those exact locations and in a straight line, with a "stone mon" several feet to the west of the iron pipe nearest the road.

        5. Clearly, Gordon Rice mistook what he labelled as a "con mon" (Miller's "h'w'y mon", and Schlieder's "stone mon") as the boundary marker, and missed the iron pipe a few feet to the east that was provably still present at the time he prepared the survey, and he apparently either didn't remeasure the distances to discover the error, or he remeasured and dismissed the fact that it is physically impossible to draw a straight line from the "con mon" through the other two iron pipes as his survey indicates. A boundary line beginning from the "con mon" would have to initially run northeast to intersect the second iron pipe, then turn to the northwest at the second pipe to be able to intersect the third and final pipe on the ridge. 

        6. This is precisely the issue that Howard Schlieder identified and corrected very clearly starting with 577/1060, as he corroborates three "I.P (found)" is at the same locations as Thomas Miller (1970/11). He indicates the "stone mon" in the same place that Rice indicates the "con mon" and that Miller indicates a "h'w'y mon". And Schlieder makes it unequivocal with multiple specific notes, that the iron pipes and not the "monument" show the true line.

        7. Further proof that Schlieder's and Miller's pipes are the same pipes in the same locations can be verified by the distance of the boundary line to a "large oak tree" that is "5' +/-" inside the easternmost boundary line on both of my updated Schlieder surveys mentioned above, and which is further corroborated by the Miller survey. The Rice boundary line that begins from the "con mon" is shown intersecting the oak tree. 

        8. To summarize: During the 1992 sale of the home, the Lattin's attorney made a very basic mistake reading the Schlieder survey, incorrectly interpreting which line on the Schlieder survey is the true eastern boundary line, and as a result, the encroachment agreement is provably invalid based on the documentary evidence.

Interestingly, the lower two iron pipes indicated on the 577/1060 Schlieder survey are absent from the updated version in the encroachment agreement 683/71.

How was this missed by the lawyers? By Frank?


March 6, 2023 Lee Dresser from T. G. Miller resurveyed the property. The lower and middle pipes were found, and he noted that the upper pipe was a steel replacement. He confirmed the correct eastern boundary line put the oak tree, still there, to the west of the boundary line by approximately 5 feet. 

The "stone monument" as I have always known it, lying on its side touching the utility pole, he said was broken off from the rest of it, which he said would be standing up straight roughly in the area under bushes there at the time. He looked for the base and could not find it. He said that another such highway monument, obviously missing, would be in the area where a round stone flower bed has been since before I moved into the home.



The two mill structures:

Confirm the same plot of land for each structure based on:
  - descriptive metadata accompanying the photo
  - positive ID of Mulk's store
        - this is more than supporting evidence, by referencing an even better known landmark that can be positively identified, this is stronger evidence that the descriptive metadata.  

Since the timeframes of the structures is in question, give them labels that are simple and descriptive without implying an order, such as:
  - the box mill, for the structure more apparently square
  - the long mill, for the structure more more apparently rectangular

The caption of the photo is deceptively ambigious. A number of alternate interpretations are clear to me, and I suspect there are more that are just beyond my ability to conceptualize them. 


What do we mean by "the Mill"?
  1. The structure in the photograph
  2. The business that conducted milling operations at that location?

I think we often speak loosely, perhaps implying #1 when we can only really mean #2 (weaker assertions about the structure).






Is there any reason for me not to remove the orange tags near the streets, and discard that broken stone monument?

There is a note on the deed that says it was prepared without an abstract of title, which I could have easily provided had I known that might make a difference. Should this be reviewed now?

Do I need to file the survey with the county clerk?

This may now be inconsistent with the written deed description of the property. Should this be updated, and how?

previous encroachment agreement should be vacated?




 
Then my historical questions, mainly trying to understand more precisely where the barn and mill race bridge were based on the attached highway survey from 1912. I realize this was done at a very different time and for a very different purpose, but I am still hoping you can provide more insight based on your expertise.

How accurately can I take the placement of the boundary lines and structures? Can I really assume that the western side of the barn on my property was roughly lined up with the eastern side of the home on the other side of the road?

Does the line at the end of the bridge represent the eastern boundary line shared with the mill/Dalebrook property, or is it purely there as a convenient measurement reference point?

Would it be true that *if* the eastern end of the bridge started/ended precisely on the boundary line, the center of the bridge would be chosen as a measuring point because presumably it is a more stable reference point? (And if that were the case, we would know the length of the bridge at one time, as twice that distance.) I am theorizing that when initially subdividing the property from the grist mill/Dalebrook that the start of the bridge would have been a convenient visual reference, and that the fact that measurements start from the center of the bridge is at least consistent with that theory, and possibly adds weight to it. Do you have thoughts on the likelihood of this, or is this pure speculation on my part? Put another way, what are the reasons that the center of the mill race bridge would be chosen as a starting point?

Finally, this is my understanding of the easter boundary line saga, can you let me know if I have said anything innaccurate, or if any parts of my story are unsupported by the documents?

Gordon Rice (in 482/529, #18987) mistook what he labelled as a "con mon" (later, Miller's "h'w'y mon", and Schlieder's "stone mon") as a boundary marker, and missed the iron pipe a few feet to the east that was provably still present at the time he prepared the survey, and he apparently either didn't remeasure the distances to discover the error, or he remeasured and dismissed the fact that it is physically impossible to draw a straight line from the "con mon" through the other two iron pipes as his survey indicates. A boundary line beginning from the "con mon" would have to initially run northeast to intersect the second iron pipe, then turn to the northwest at the second pipe to be able to intersect the third and final pipe on the hill brow. 

This is precisely the issue that Howard Schlieder identified and corrected very clearly starting with 577/1060, as he corroborates three "I.P (found)" at the same locations as Thomas Miller (1970/11). He indicates the "stone mon" in the same place that Rice indicates the "con mon" and that Miller indicates a "h'w'y mon". And Schlieder makes it unequivocal with multiple specific notes, that the true line runs through the iron pipes and not the line through the "monument". 

During the 1992 sale of the home, the Lattin's attorney apparently misread the Schlieder survey, incorrectly interpreting which line on the Schlieder survey is the true eastern boundary line, resulting in the encroachment agreement (683/71). Interestingly, the lower two iron pipes indicated on the 577/1060 Schlieder survey are absent in the updated version in the encroachment agreement.

An updated survey in 2023 found all iron pipes (do I recall you saying the upper pipe was a steel replacement?), essentially confirming Miller 1970/11, but acknowledging that the lower iron pipe was itself not directly on the true line as indicated on the 2023 survey.

As I think I mentioned, I am documenting the history of my property, including past owners, at memills.com. Feel free to say no to anything you have any reservations about, but ideally I would like to acknowledge your consultation and possibly even quote responses to the specific points above, again, only if you are willing. Otherwise, I will just summarize what I have learned and not specifically mention you if you prefer.

I think that's everything! I assume this is an unsual set of questions, so I really appreciate your patience and willingness to help! Please let me know of an updated amount due and I will pay immediately.

Lee Dresser


Carly - all black cat, adopted from Tompkins County SPCA on Hanshaw Road, Ithaca, next to Ludgate's Market, a place I shopped at often as it was on the commute between Cornell where I worked and my home in Freeville. Carly had had kittens at least once prior to her adoption. When we visited the SPCA, I specifically asked which cats were there the longest, and Carly had been there the longest, at least several months as I recall. Unlike the other cats, she didn't even bother coming to the front of her enclosure when we came by, but when I picked her up and held her, she melted into my shoulder and instantly became part of our family. Her fur was a dull brown initially, but after a few weeks, her true, rich shiny black color started to show, and with it, her true personality, which was much larger than the reserved cat we had initially seen. She and Roger were very close, although Roger really didn't have a choice. They loved to play together but Carly would often get a bit too rough and bite Roger to the point that he would cry out for her to stop. Carly was very talkative and would often "chirp" with each step she made, and anytime she was touched.

Roger - white with gray patches, adopted from Tompkins County SPCA. Unlike Carly, my ex-wife and I saw him at the Ithaca Farmer's market at Steamboat Landing where the SPCA set up an adoption drive that day. We were told that he was "semi-feral" and would likely make a better "barn cat". As it turns out, it became clear from interacting with him that he was experiencing pain in his back, near his tail, as he would react severely when touched there. After telling a chiropractor friend about this, she suggested giving him an adjustment. After his treatment, Roger was a completely different cat, and never again had back issues. Roger loved catnip to a degree I have never seen in a cat before. Catnip had no effect on Carly, and she would often view his antics with bewilderment. Roger and Carly liked to sit on the stairs and look down on me through the open spaces. While awaiting adoption, Roger was fostered by Pam Stansbury, a co-worker at Cornell University Library, and her husband, who had given him the temporary name of "Silvio". My ex-wife didn't like Silvio and chose Roger instead. But on occasion, I still called him Silvio.   

Tobi - my friend Melissa' Hyde's dog, all black, laborador retriever mix. The last time I watched Tobi for Melissa was the first several weeks of the pandemic lockdown in Spring 2020.

Chip - the name I gave a chipmunk I befriended in the Spring and early Summer of 2021. He lived under the tool shed at the end of the stone patio, and would take peanuts out of my hand. He had quite a large construction project going on under the shed, but one day he was gone, along with the other chipmunks living in the immediate area at the time, presumably victims of the foxes that live on the hill, or one of the neighborhood cats. (I have a trail camera image from the Summer prior of a fox with a chipmunk sized and shaped object in its mouth.)

Ginger - the Todi's pit bull. Ginger and I were instant friends, and it was common for me to be mowing the lawn or doing some other outdoor chore and suddenly realize that Ginger was sitting a few feet away patiently waiting for my attention. When I first moved to Brooktondale, Ginger was still extremely active, and loved to run up and down the steep hill to the side and behind my house. Jim Todi told me a story of her doing this as a puppy, and on the return trip down the hill, collided with a passing vehicle in the road. Apparently the vehicle got the worst of it. Sadly, it would only be a few years before Ginger rapidly declined in her older age. She would accompany Jim everywhere and in moderate weather, it was common for me to walk past Jim's truck parked on the roadside, on my way to and from the postoffice, and see Ginger sleeping in the passenger seat.
